>>What Is the OSI Model
The Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model describes seven layers that computer systems use to communicate over a network.

Physical Layer: The main functionality of the physical layer is to transmit the individual bits from one node to another node.
It is the lowest layer of the OSI model.
It establishes, maintains and deactivates the physical connection.
It specifies the mechanical, electrical and procedural network interface specifications.

Data-Link Layer: Access to get the data is achieved at this layer
It breaks the input data into frames which makes analysing the data easier
Ensures that the data received is free of any errors
It controls the flow of data in the stipulated time duration and along with a set speed of transmission
The data is sent to the next layer in the form of packets which are then reviewed for further processing

Network Layer: It acts as a network controller
Transferring of variable data from one node to another, connected in a network, takes place at this layer 
Each node has a specific address and the network layer ensures that the data is sent to its destination address
The data is sent in the form of fragments which are then connected to each other once the processing is done

Transport Layer: The delivery of data packets is managed by the transport layer
It manages the flow of data, segmentation and desegmentation and error control
There are five classes of the transport protocol, starting from 0 and continuing till 4 (TP0 to TP4)
Fragmentation and reassembly of data packets occur that this stage

Session Layer: The connection between the computers connected in a network is managed at this layer
Establishment, management and termination between the remote and local application takes place here
Authentication and authorisation happen at this layer
This layer can also terminate or end any session or transmission which is complete

Presentation Layer: The data is converted into the syntax or semantics which an application understands
Before passing on the data any further, the data is formatted at this stage
Functions including compression, encryption, compatible character code set, etc. are also done at this layer of the model
It serves as a data translator for the network

Application Layer: The interaction with the user or the user application takes place at this stage
When identifying communication partners, the application layer determines the identity and availability of communication partners for an application with data to transmit

>> Layers of TCP/IP Model
1. Physical Layer
It is a group of applications requiring network communications. This layer is responsible for generating the data and requesting connections. It acts on behalf of the sender and the Network Access layer on the behalf of the receiver. During this article, we will be talking on the behalf of the receiver.

2. Data Link Layer
The packet’s network protocol type, in this case, TCP/IP, is identified by the data-link layer. Error prevention and “framing” are also provided by the data-link layer. Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) framing and Ethernet IEEE 802.2 framing are two examples of data-link layer protocols.

3. Internet Layer
This layer parallels the functions of OSI’s Network layer. It defines the protocols which are responsible for the logical transmission of data over the entire network. The main protocols residing at this layer are as follows:

IP: IP stands for Internet Protocol and it is responsible for delivering packets from the source host to the destination host by looking at the IP addresses in the packet headers. IP has 2 versions: IPv4 and IPv6. IPv4 is the one that most websites are using currently. But IPv6 is growing as the number of IPv4 addresses is limited in number when compared to the number of users.
ICMP: ICMP stands for Internet Control Message Protocol. It is encapsulated within IP datagrams and is responsible for providing hosts with information about network problems.

ARP: ARP stands for Address Resolution Protocol. Its job is to find the hardware address of a host from a known IP address. ARP has several types: Reverse ARP, Proxy ARP, Gratuitous ARP, and Inverse ARP.
The Internet Layer is a layer in the Internet Protocol (IP) suite, which is the set of protocols that define the Internet. The Internet Layer is responsible for routing packets of data from one device to another across a network. It does this by assigning each device a unique IP address, which is used to identify the device and determine the route that packets should take to reach it.

4. Transport Layer
The TCP/IP transport layer protocols exchange data receipt acknowledgments and retransmit missing packets to ensure that packets arrive in order and without error. End-to-end communication is referred to as such. Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and User Datagram Protocol are transport layer protocols at this level (UDP).

TCP: Applications can interact with one another using TCP as though they were physically connected by a circuit. TCP transmits data in a way that resembles character-by-character transmission rather than separate packets. A starting point that establishes the connection, the whole transmission in byte order, and an ending point that closes the connection make up this transmission

UDP: The datagram delivery service is provided by UDP, the other transport layer protocol. Connections between receiving and sending hosts are not verified by UDP. Applications that transport little amounts of data use UDP rather than TCP because it eliminates the processes of establishing and validating connections.

5. Application Layer
This layer is analogous to the transport layer of the OSI model. It is responsible for end-to-end communication and error-free delivery of data. It shields the upper-layer applications from the complexities of data. The three main protocols present in this layer are:

HTTP and HTTPS: HTTP stands for Hypertext transfer protocol. It is used by the World Wide Web to manage communications between web browsers and servers. HTTPS stands for HTTP-Secure. It is a combination of HTTP with SSL(Secure Socket Layer). It is efficient in cases where the browser needs to fill out forms, sign in, authenticate, and carry out bank transactions.

SSH: SSH stands for Secure Shell. It is a terminal emulations software similar to Telnet. The reason SSH is preferred is because of its ability to maintain the encrypted connection. It sets up a secure session over a TCP/IP connection.

NTP: NTP stands for Network Time Protocol. It is used to synchronize the clocks on our computer to one standard time source. It is very useful in situations like bank transactions. Assume the following situation without the presence of NTP. Suppose you carry out a transaction, where your computer reads the time at 2:30 PM while the server records it at 2:28 PM. The server can crash very badly if it’s out of sync.